# Project: Data Warehouse.
Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

Description
In this project we will load data from S3 to staging tables on redshift and execute sql statments that create the analytics tables from these staging tables. 
 

# Project Datasets

Source data: 
  1. Song Dataset: a subset of million song dataset containing.Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song
     s3 link : s3://udacity-dend/song_data
  2. log Dataset: log files in JSON format generated by event simulator based on Song dataset.
     S3 link : s3://udacity-dend/log_data
     Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

# Schema for Song play analysis

Schema Design: The Goal of the design is to organize the data to avoid duplication of fields and repeating data, and to ensure quality of the data to perform song play analysis.
  
  Fact table contains all the metrics data and using primary_key we can make joins to dimension tables to get necessary info. 
  
  
  Fact Table
   1. songplays: records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
   - songplay_id(Primary Key), start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
  Dimension Tables
   1. users:users in the app
   - user_id(Primary_Key), first_name, last_name, gender, level
   2. songs:songs in music database
   - song_id(Primary_Key), title, artist_id, year, duration
   3. artists:artists in music database
   - artist_id(Primary_Key), name, location, latitude, longitude
   4. time:timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
   - start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday
   
  For EX: To Identify how long each user is spending on the website. 
  
Select 
  b.user_id,
  b.first_name,
  b.last_name,
  sum(a.session_id)
  from 
  fact_songplay a inner join 
  dim_Users b on a.user_id = b.user_id 
  group by 
   b.user_id, b.first_name,b.last_name ;
   
# Project Template
  
create_table.py is where you'll create your fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift.
etl.py is where you'll load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.
sql_queries.py is where you'll define you SQL statements, which will be imported into the two other files above.
Test.ipynb is the Juypter Notebook used to run the test SQL queries or configure AWS.
README.md is where you'll provide discussion on your process and decisions for this ETL pipeline   

# step by step process to complete project.

Create Table Schemas
 1. Design schemas for your fact and dimension tables
 2. Write a SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py
 3. Complete the logic in create_tables.py to connect to the database and create these tables
 4. Write SQL DROP statements to drop tables in the beginning of create_tables.py if the tables already exist. This way, you can run create_tables.py whenever you want to reset your database and test your ETL pipeline.
 5. Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.
 6. Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.
 7. Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database. You can use Query Editor in the AWS Redshift console for this.

Build ETL Pipeline
 1. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.
 2. Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.
 3. Test by running etl.py after running create_tables.py and running the analytic queries on your Redshift database to compare your results with the expected results.
 4. Delete your redshift cluster when finished.


